= Rack::Thumb

<tt>Rack::Thumb</tt> is drop-in dynamic thumbnailing middleware for Rack-based
applications, featuring simple configuration, optional security (via url-signing),
and maximum flexibility.


== Getting Started

You will need ImageMagick and the Mapel gem (http://github.com/akdubya/mapel).

  gem install rack-thumb

  # rackup.ru
  require 'myapp'
  require 'rack/thumb'

  use Rack::Thumb
  use Rack::Static, :urls => ["/media"]

  run MyApp.new

<tt>Rack::Thumb</tt> is file-server agnostic to provide maximum deployment
flexibility. Simply set it up in front of any application that's capable of
serving source images (I'm using it with an app that serves images from CouchDB).

See the example directory for more <tt>Rack</tt> configurations. Because
thumbnailing is an expensive operation, you should run <tt>Rack::Thumb</tt>
behind a cache, such as the excellent <tt>Rack::Cache</tt>. Or you could
configure <tt>Rack::Thumb</tt> to write the processed image to the location
requested and let your Webserver perform the delivery (see Writing).


== Rendering Options

<tt>Rack::Thumb</tt> intercepts requests for images that have urls of
the form <code>/path/to/image_{metadata}.ext</code> and returns rendered
thumbnails. Rendering options include +width+, +height+ and +gravity+. If
both +width+ and +height+ are supplied, images are resized and optionally
cropped to fit the aspect ratio.

Link to thumbnails from your templates as follows:

  /media/foobar_50x50.jpg     # => Crop and resize to 50x50
  /media/foobar_50x50-nw.jpg  # => Crop and resize with northwest gravity
  /media/foobar_50x.jpg       # => Resize to a width of 50, preserving AR
  /media/foobar_x50.jpg       # => Resize to a height of 50, preserving AR
  /media/foobar_50xx50.jpg    # => Resize to a maximum height and width of 50, preserving AR

You can turn off cropping globally by configuring the rack app:

  MyRails::Application.config.middleware.use Rack::Thumb,
    :crop => false


== URL Signing

To prevent pesky end-users and bots from flooding your application with
render requests you can set up <tt>Rack::Thumb</tt> to check for a <tt>SHA-1</tt>
signature that is unique to every url. Using this option, only thumbnails requested
by your templates will be valid. Example:

  use Rack::Thumb, {
    :secret => "My secret",   # => Don't tell anyone!
    :keylength => "16"        # => Only use 16 digits of the SHA-1 key
  }

You can then use your +secret+ to generate secure links in your templates using
Ruby's built-in <tt>Digest::SHA1</tt> library:

  /media/foobar_50x100-sw-a267c193a7eff046.jpg  # => Successful
  /media/foobar_120x250-a267c193a7eff046.jpg    # => Returns a bad request error

There are no helper modules just yet but it's easy enough to roll your own.

== Cache-Control header

You can make <tt>Rack::Thumb</tt> set the Cache-Control header, and let
<tt>Rack::Cache</tt> cache the thumbnails. Example:

  use Rack::Thumb, :ttl => 3600*24             # Will set max-age to 24 hours


== Writing

As a quick solution for caching you may let <tt>Rack::Thumb</tt> write a generated
image to the location that was requested. That allows your Webserver to deliver the
file directly without hitting your application on subsequent requests.


=== Configuration Example

Assuming you use Rails 3 and your public image path is /media, your configuration
may be like the following (put it into an initializer):

  require "rack/thumb"

  MyRails::Application.config.middleware.use Rack::Thumb,
    :write => true

  MyRails::Application.config.middleware.use Rack::Static,
    :root => "#{Rails.root}/public",
    :urls => ["/media"]


== Image Optimization

=== Metadata Stripping

If a patched version of <tt>Mapel</tt> is available, additional image metadata will be stripped,
allowing a smaller file size. You'll find the patched version at
http://github.com/vidibus/mapel

To use the patched versions of both gems in a Rails app, equip your Gemfile with:

  gem "mapel", :git => "git://github.com/vidibus/mapel.git"
  gem "rack-thumb", :git => "git://github.com/vidibus/rack-thumb.git"

If you want to preserve all metadata on a single image, call it with the <tt>-raw</tt> option:

  /media/foobar_50x50-raw.jpg

If you want to preserve all metadata by default, configure the rack app:

  MyRails::Application.config.middleware.use Rack::Thumb,
    :preserve_metadata => true

=== Image orientation

With the same patched version of <tt>Mapel</tt> available, images with EXIF Orientation will
be auto-rated, unless the image is requested raw.


== Deep Thoughts

<tt>Rack::Thumb</tt> respects any extra headers you set in your downstream app.
You are free to set caching policies, etc. however you like. Incoming HEAD requests
skip the rendering step.

There are a decent number of specs but the middleware isn't very strict at
checking setup options at the moment, and I'm sure there are a few edge cases
that need to be looked into. Comments, suggestions and bug reports are welcome.


== Meta

Written by Aleks Williams (http://github.com/akdubya)

Credit goes to the repoze.bitblt (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/repoze.bitblt)
team for the clever url-signing implementation. My original security scheme
was stupidly complex.

Released under the MIT License: www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

github.com/akdubya/rack-thumb